- [Instructor] Now that we've completed basic AES encryption
using a modern block cipher and a 256-bit key,
we will now work on creating an asymmetric key pair
so we can do public key, private key encryption.
Let's go ahead and navigate into our IDE
and I'd like you to create a package
in src, main, Java and that package name
is going to be com.frankmoley.crypto.asymmetric.
Now in our asymmetric package,
we're gonna create a new Java class file
called AsymmetricEncryptionUtils.
Now just like we did before,
we're gonna create a private static final string
called RSA
and we will simply set it equal to the string RSA.
So now we can create a public static key pair
and that's from java.security
and we will name this method generateRSAKeyPair
and we will let it throw an exception.
You can import that class if need be.
Now, very similar to the way we did before,
we're gonna create an instance of SecureRandom
and this time we will use a KeyPairGenerator
and we will set it equal
to KeyPairGenerator.getInstance parsing it RSA.
Now we will take our KeyPairGenerator
and we will initialize it.
And we're gonna initialize it with a 4096 key,
and our secureRandom
in order to see that properly.
And we will simply return
our KeyPairGenerator.generateKeyPair.
And that's all there is to it.
And you should notice it's very similar
to the way the symmetric-key worked.
Go ahead and create a test and in our test,
we will create an instance of keyPair
equal to AsymmetricEncryptionUtils.generateKeyPair.
Once again, we need to go ahead and throw an exception.
Now we'll go ahead and assertNotNull
on our keyPair to satisfy our Unit.
But let's go ahead and do a little bit
of System.out.println magic here.
The first thing I wanna print out is the Private Key
and we will set that equal to
our DatatypeConverter.printHexBinary
and we're gonna do the keyPair.getPrivate().getEncoded.
And we're gonna do the same for our Public Key.
(typing)
and I'm gonna put an extra space
in here for a very specific reason
that I will show you here in a minute.
We're gonna do once again
the DatatypeConverter.printHexBinary.
We'll go from the keyPair.getPublic this time, .getEncoded
So then run our test here.
I'm gonna pop this console window up just a little bit
so we can actually see what's going on.
The first thing you may notice is this is actually take
a little bit of time to run your test.
And the reason is that we're generating a 496-bit key.
That takes a little bit of time.
The other thing that I want you to notice here
is that our private key, which is on the second line here,
is actually significantly longer
than our public key.
And as I scroll to the right,
you can see that it keeps going,
and keeps going, and keeps going.
If I come back to the left here a little bit,
you'll see the public key which is on the third line
is about right there, and that is as expected.
Our private key is always going to be longer
than our public key as far as the key space goes
with most asymmetric key algorithms.
So now that we've generated the key,
we're ready to do the encryption
and decryption in our next video.